BeachesMLS Agent/Broker Licensed Feed - IDX
BeachesMLS, Inc.
Participant Data Access Agreement

This AGREEMENT is made and entered into by Beaches MLS, Inc. (“MLS”), with offices at One Harvard Circle, Suite 102, West Palm Beach, FL 33409; the real estate brokerage firm identified on the registration with FBS Datamart (“Firm”); the Subscribers affiliated with Firm that are identified on the registration with FBS Datamart, if any (collectively the “Subscriber Party”); and the individual or business association identified on the registration with FBS Datamart, if any (“Consultant”).

DEFINITIONS
1. For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below.

Audio Device: Any audio delivery of IDX data authorized by MLS Policies and listed in the registration entry box asking “Briefly describe what you are creating with the data, how you are using the data, and who will have access to the data” that are not web sites or Mobile Applications. “Audio Device” does not include mass media delivery of MLS Data.

AVM: An automated valuation model or similar service using mathematical modeling combined with portions of the MLS Data and possibly other data, provided it can fairly be characterized as a valuation of real property, and only to the extent permitted by the MLS Policies. An AVM need not include any human judgment or analysis. “AVM” includes broker price opinions (BPOs) and comparative (or comparable) market analyses (CMAs) to the extent they satisfy this definition.

Confidential Information: “Confidential Information” means information or material proprietary to a party or designated “confidential” by the party and not generally known to the public that the other parties may obtain knowledge of or access to as a result of this Agreement. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, the following types of information (whether in oral, visual, audio, written or other form): (a) all MLS Data, except to the extent to which this Agreement and the MLS Policies permit its disclosure; (b) IP addresses, access codes and passwords; (c) any information that MLS obtains from any third party that MLS treats as proprietary or designates as Confidential Information, whether or not owned or developed by MLS; (d) any information designated as confidential or private by any applicable state, federal, local or other law, regulation or directive; and (e) any claims and evidence presented by any party in any arbitration under this Agreement. Confidential Information does not include information that is or becomes publicly available by other than unauthorized disclosure by the receiving party; independently developed by the receiving party; received from a third party who has obtained and disclosed it without breaching any confidentiality agreement; or already possessed by the receiving party at the time of its disclosure.

Data Interface: The transport protocols and data storage formats provided by MLS for use by Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant; MLS may modify the Data Interface in its sole discretion from time to time.

Firm AVM: Use and display of portions of the MLS Data by Firm for AVM purposes subject to the provisions of Exhibit B of this Agreement.

Firm BBO Use: Firm’s use and display of portions of MLS Data under the “broker back office” provisions of MLS Policies that (a) exposes MLS Data and derivatives of it only to Firm, Firm-Related Persons, and Firm’s bona fide clients as established under state law; or (b) exposes MLS Data and derivatives of it in marketplace statistical analyses and reports to the extent permitted by MLS Policies. “Derivatives” of MLS Data include any subset of data or aggregation of values derived from the MLS Data. The MLS Policies determine whether Firm BBO Use includes and permits Firm and Subscriber advertising or making representations about specific properties that are listed with other participants or that were sold by other participants.

Firm-Related Persons: Consultant, if any, and employees of Firm who are not Subscribers or broker/managers.

IDX: Use and display of portions of the MLS Data under the Internet Data Exchange (IDX) provisions of the MLS Policies.

MLS Data: Data relating to real estate for sale, previously sold, or listed for sale, and to MLS Participants (including text, photographs, and all other data formats now known or hereafter invented) entered into MLS’s databases by MLS Participants and MLS, or on their behalf.

MLS Policies: The then-current MLS’s Rules and Regulations and any operating policies promulgated by MLS, as amended from time to time in MLS’s sole discretion.

Mobile Applications: Any displays of IDX data authorized by MLS Policies and listed in the registration entry box asking “Briefly describe what you are creating with the data, how you are using the data, and who will have access to the data that are not web sites. “Mobile Applications” does not include mass media display of MLS Data.

Participant: This term has the meaning given to it in the MLS Policies. For purposes of this Agreement, “Participant” does not apply to participants of MLSs other than MLS. Where applied in this Agreement to Participants other than Firm, “Participant” also includes Subscribers affiliated with those Participants for whom the Participants are responsible under the laws of the State of Florida.

Participant Data Use: Any use of those portions of the MLS Data relating to Firm’s own listings.

Permitted Use: One or more of the following permitted data uses: Firm BBO Use, IDX, Participant Data Use, VOW, or Firm AVM as specified on the registration with FBS Datamart and in the registration entry box asking “Briefly describe what you are creating with the data, how you are using the data, and who will have access to the data”.

Second Level Domain: “Second Level Domain” has the meaning given to it in this paragraph. “URL” means a web address, including the “http://” and any material appearing after a slash in the address. “Domain Name” means a URL, less the “http://” and any material appearing to the right of the next slash (‘/’) in the address. (So for example, in the URL “Http://janesmith.abcrealty.com/homepage.html”, the Domain Name is “JANESMITH.ABCREALTY.COM”.) “Top Level Domain” means the portion of the Domain Name to the right of the right-most period. (In the example, “COM”.) “Second Level Domain” means that portion of a domain name to the left of the right-most period, up to the second period from the right, if any, plus the Top Level Domain. (In the example, “ABCREALTY.COM”.) “Third Level Domain” means that portion of a domain name to the left of the second period from the right, if any, up to the third period from the right, if any, plus the Second Level Domain. (In the example, “JANESMITH.ABCREALTY.COM”.).

Subscriber: Any person holding a real estate license in Florida who is not a Participant but who is subject to a Participant’s supervision under the laws of Florida.

VOW: Use and display of portions of the MLS Data under the Virtual Office Website (VOW) provisions of the MLS Policies.

MLS’S OBLIGATIONS

MLS grants to Firm and Subscriber Party a terminable, non-transferable, non-exclusive, revocable, world-wide license to make copies of, display, perform, and make derivative works of the MLS Data for the Permitted Use, and the right to sublicense the same to Consultant, during the term of this Agreement, only to the extent expressly permitted by and subject at all times to the terms and restrictions of this Agreement and the MLS Policies; any other use of the MLS Data is hereby prohibited. Firm and Subscriber party shall not, and shall not permit Consultant, to sell or monetize

the MLS Data in any way unless expressly permitted by MLS. Firm and Subscriber Party may sublicense its rights to Consultant, but not the right to sublicense, only so Consultant may provide services on behalf of Firm or Subscriber Party to exercise the Permitted Uses only to the extent expressly permitted by and subject at all times to the terms and restrictions of this Agreement and the MLS Policies; any other use of the MLS Data is hereby prohibited. All licenses hereunder shall terminate upon the termination of this Agreement. This Agreement is a non-exclusive license, and not a sale, assignment, or exclusive license. MLS retains all rights not expressly granted herein.

MLS agrees to provide to Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant, during the term of this Agreement, (a) access to the MLS Data via the Data Interface under the same terms and conditions MLS offers to other MLS Participants; (b) seven days’ advance notice of changes to the Data Interface; and (c) seven days’ advance notice of changes to the MLS Policies to the extent they are applicable or related to the Permitted Use. MLS does not undertake to provide technical support for the Data Interface or the MLS Data. The Data Interface, together with access to the MLS Data, may from time-to-time be unavailable, whether because of technical failures or interruptions, intentional downtime for service or changes to the Data Interface, or otherwise. Any interruption of access to the Data Interface or MLS Data shall not constitute a default by MLS under this Agreement. MLS may use a third party contractor, determined in MLS’s sole discretion, to facilitate the data access and any other responsibilities or rights of MLS under this Agreement. Unless otherwise agreed upon, Firm, Subscriber Party and Consultant acknowledge and agree that they will place MLS provided monitoring code in all of their products containing MLS Data (including but not limited to, websites and mobile applications) for the purpose of providing MLS with a mechanism to compile statistics about internet activity related to such products and how the MLS Data is viewed and visited within those products. Firm, Subscriber Party and Consultant acknowledge and agree that MLS may utilize a third party of MLS's choice to manage the computer code and website statistics analysis. Firm, Subscriber Party and Consultant must remove any MLS Data that is no longer included in the Data Interface within 48 hours of its removal from the Data Interface.

FIRM’S OBLIGATIONS

Firm and Subscriber Party shall comply with the MLS Policies at all times. In the event of any perceived conflict between the MLS Policies and this Agreement, the MLS Policies shall govern. Additionally, Firm and Subscriber Party shall comply with all applicable laws, statutes, ordinances and regulations in performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Firm and Subscriber Party shall use the MLS Data obtained under this Agreement for the Permitted Use only. Any other use is strictly prohibited. Firm and Subscriber Party shall not make the MLS Data or the Confidential Information available to any third party, including without limitation affiliates, franchisors, and subsidiaries, unless expressly authorized to do so under this Agreement. Firm and Subscriber Party may display or deliver the MLS Data on web sites, Mobile Applications, and Audio Devices only to the extent permitted by the MLS Policies and then only on a site or sites resident at the Second Level and Third Level Domain(s), Mobile Applications, and Audio Devices expressly indicated on the registration entry box asking “Briefly describe what you are creating with the data, how you are using the data, and who will have access to the data. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement in perpetuity.
Firm and Subscriber Party acknowledge that ownership and use rights relating to copyrights in the MLS Data are defined in the MLS Policies or in the terms of the participant and subscriber agreements between MLS Firm and Subscriber Party, or both. Firm and Subscriber Party shall not challenge or take any action inconsistent with MLS’s ownership of or rights in the MLS Data. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement in perpetuity.
If MLS notifies Firm or Subscriber Party of a breach of the MLS Policies or this Agreement and Firm or Subscriber Party does not immediately cure the breach, Firm and Subscriber Party shall hold Consultant harmless from any liability arising from Consultant’s cooperation with MLS under Paragraph 10.
Firm and Subscriber Party shall pay the fees, if any, that MLS (or its shareholder associations/MLSs) customarily charges other MLS Participants for data access. Firm and Subscriber Party acknowledge receipt of MLS’s current schedule of such fees, if any. MLS may in its sole discretion establish or modify its schedule of fees upon 30 days’ written notice to Firm and Subscriber Party. Firm and Subscriber Party shall be liable for all costs, including reasonable attorney fees, associated with collecting amounts due under this Agreement.
Firm is surety for Subscriber Party’s and Consultant’s obligations under this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement in perpetuity.

CONSULTANT’S OBLIGATIONS

Consultant shall immediately correct any breach of this Agreement or violation of the MLS Policies within its control, whether committed by Firm, Subscriber Party, or Consultant, upon notice from MLS.
Consultant acknowledges that (as among the parties to this Agreement) Firm and MLS possess all right, title, and interest in all copyrights in the MLS Data. Consultant shall not challenge or take any action inconsistent with MLS’s and Firm’s ownership of or rights in the MLS Data. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement in perpetuity.
Consultant shall not make the MLS Data or the Confidential Information available to any third party, including without limitation affiliates, franchisors, and subsidiaries, except on behalf of Firm and Subscriber Party and in a manner consistent with Firm’s and Subscriber Party’s obligations under Paragraphs 4 through 9 of this Agreement; nor shall it make any other use of the MLS Data, whether commercial or personal. In the event that Consultant provides services to Participants other than Firm (or to Subscribers affiliated with Firm other than the Subscriber Party), Consultant must enter separate contracts with MLS. Consultant must ascertain, using the Data Interface on a daily basis, that each Participant to which Consultant provides services remains an eligible Participant; and in the case of Subscribers, that each Subscriber Party remains affiliated with Firm. Failure to comply with the provisions of this paragraph, will result in MLS terminating all of Consultant’s access to the MLS Data under this Agreement and all similar agreements. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement in perpetuity.
Consultant warrants that any effort or use of the MLS Data will not constitute patent infringement or other intellectual property rights of any third party. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement in perpetuity. Additionally, Consultant shall comply with all applicable laws, statutes, ordinances and regulations in performance of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
Consultant represents that it currently, and through the term of this Agreement, shall use industry best practices for firewalls and other network protocols to increase the security of its systems and shall employ reasonable physical, technical, and administrative security measures to protect the Confidential Information and prevent unauthorized third-parties from accessing and using the Confidential Information. Consultant will comply fully with all applicable laws, and regulations relating to personally identifiable information (“PII”) and data privacy with regards to the Confidential Information. Consultant agrees that it will monitor and test its security protocols from time to time and adjust the same as necessary. In the event a security breach of Consultant’s systems or use of the Confidential Information by unauthorized third parties, Consultant shall immediately notify MLS of such breach by confirmed email or confirmed telephone call. In the event of such security breach, Consultant will (i) cooperate with MLS at Consultant’s expense to prevent or stop such a security breach; (ii) comply with all applicable laws and take appropriate steps to remedy such a security breach; (iii) indemnify, hold harmless and defend MLS against any and all loss, damage, claims, liabilities, or expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, arising out of or relating to a third party claim or suit from breach by Consultant of its obligations described in this paragraph.
Consultant shall pay the fees, if any, that MLS customarily charges other consultants for data access. Consultant acknowledges receipt of MLS’s current schedule of such fees, if any. MLS may in its sole discretion establish or modify its schedule of fees upon 30 days’ written notice to Consultant. Consultant shall be liable for all costs, including reasonable attorney fees, associated with collecting amounts due under this Agreement.
Consultant is surety for Firm’s and Subscriber Party’s obligations to pay fees under Paragraph 8. The provisions of the preceding sentence shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement in perpetuity. Consultant shall notify MLS within five business days of any change to the information relating to it in this Agreement, including change of its corporate name or address.

AUDITS OF COMPLIANCE

MLS may in its reasonable discretion conduct periodic compliance reviews of Firm’s, Subscriber Party’s, and Consultant’s use of the MLS Data under this Agreement. Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant will respond within 72 hours of any compliance inquiry by MLS. MLS may, or at its option may engage an independent third party to, review, inspect, and test the books, records, equipment, and facilities of Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant to the extent reasonably necessary to ascertain Firm’s, Subscriber Party’s, and Consultant’s compliance with this Agreement (“Audit”). MLS may conduct an Audit upon any notice reasonable under the circumstances. Audit activities may include, without limitation, obtaining full access to Firm’s, Subscriber Party’s, and Consultant’s web sites, Mobile Applications, Audio Devices, and systems to ensure that MLS Data is displayed in accordance with the MLS Policies; using all features available to end-users of Firm’s, Subscriber Party’s, and Consultant’s systems that employ the MLS Data; and posing as consumers to register and test services Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant make available to consumers using the MLS Data. MLS shall pay the costs it incurs, and the out-of-pocket costs Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant incur, as part of any Audit; provided, however, Firm or Subscriber Party shall be liable for all costs of any Audit that discloses that Firm, Subscriber Party, or Consultant has breached this Agreement. The provisions of this paragraph shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement for one year.
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
The parties shall protect the Confidential Information with the same degree of care they take to protect their own sensitive business information of like kind, but in no event less than reasonable care. A party may disclose Confidential Information if such disclosure is required by law or court order; provided, however, that such party makes commercially reasonable efforts to notify the others in writing in advance of disclosure. Within five days after termination of this Agreement, the receiving party shall return to the disclosing party all Confidential Information of the disclosing party. The receiving party shall also erase or destroy Confidential Information stored on magnetic media or other computer storage. An officer of the receiving party shall certify in writing that all materials have been returned or destroyed.

TERM AND TERMINATION

The term of this Agreement begins on the date that it is fully executed. This Agreement shall terminate upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) immediately upon termination of Firm’s privileges as a Participant in MLS; (b) 30 days after any party’s notice to the others of its intent to terminate; (c) 10 days after any party’s notice to another that the other has breached this Agreement, provided the breach remains uncured; (d) immediately upon any party’s notice to another that the other has breached this Agreement, provided the breach is not susceptible to cure, is one of a pattern of repeated breaches, or has caused the party giving notice irreparable harm; (e) immediately upon Firm’s notice to a Consultant that Consultant is no longer designated to provide services for the Permitted Use to it; (f) with regard to any Subscriber Party, immediately upon any event that results in the Subscriber Party no longer being affiliated with Firm; (g) as provided in Paragraphs 29 and 32.
In the event Firm’s privileges as a Participant (or Subscriber Party’s privileges of affiliation with Firm) are terminated while this Agreement is in effect, and MLS subsequently reinstates those privileges, this Agreement shall automatically be reinstated if MLS resumes its obligations under Paragraphs 2 and 3. In the event Firm, Subscriber Party, or Consultant breaches this Agreement and entitles MLS to terminate under Paragraph 19, MLS may in its sole discretion suspend its performance instead of terminating this Agreement. MLS may make this election by notice to the other parties within three days after the initiation of the suspension. Firm’s, Subscriber Party’s, and Consultant’s obligations hereunder continue during any period of suspension. In the event of any termination of this Agreement, Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant shall delete the MLS Data and any derivative works based on it (except the portions of it relating to Firm;s own listings). In the event of any suspension of this Agreement, Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant shall make no further use of the MLS Data or any derivative works based on it (except the portions of it relating to Firm’s own listings) until and unless Firm’s or Subscriber Party’s rights under this Agreement are restored.

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Applicable law. This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted according to the laws of the State of Florida, without regard to its conflicts and choice of law provisions.
Survival of Obligations. The “Definitions,” “Confidential Information,” and “General” provisions of this Agreement shall survive its termination or expiration in perpetuity. Other provisions shall survive according to their terms.
MLS’s Remedies. (a) Injunctive relief: Because of the unique nature of the MLS Data and Confidential Information, Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant acknowledge and agree that MLS would suffer irreparable harm in the event that any of them breaches or threatens to breach its obligations under this Agreement, and that monetary damages would be inadequate to compensate MLS for a breach. MLS is therefore entitled, in addition to all other forms of relief, to injunctive relief to restrain any threatened, continuing or further breach by Firm, Subscriber Party, or Consultant, or any one of them, without showing or proving any actual damages sustained by MLS, and without posting any bond. (b) Liquidated damages: Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant acknowledge that damages suffered by MLS from access to the MLS Data by an unauthorized third party as a result of disclosure of any passwords or an unauthorized disclosure of the MLS Data to a third party would be speculative and difficult to quantify. Accordingly, as a material inducement to MLS to enter into this Agreement, Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant agree that in the event Firm, Subscriber Party, Firm-Related Persons, or Consultant, or its employees, agents, or contractors, disclose any password to access the MLS Data or disclose the MLS Data itself to any unauthorized third party, regardless of whether such disclosure is intentional or negligent, Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant shall be liable to MLS for liquidated damages in the amount of $5,000 for each such disclosure and termination of this Agreement. Liability of Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant under this paragraph is joint and several.
Limitation of liability/exclusion of warranties. IN NO EVENT SHALL MLS BE LIABLE TO FIRM, SUBSCRIBER PARTY, OR CONSULTANT FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (EVEN IF MLS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES), OR LOST PROFITS ARISING FROM THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY BREACH OF IT. IN NO EVENT SHALL MLS BE LIABLE TO FIRM, SUBSCRIBER PARTY, OR CONSULTANT FOR ANY AMOUNT IN EXCESS OF THE GREATER OF (A) THE FEES FIRM. SUBSCRIBER PARTY, AND CONSULTANT HAVE PAID MLS, IF ANY, IN THE YEAR IMMEDIATELY PRECEDING THE FIRST EVENT GIVING RISE TO ANY CLAIM FOR DAMAGES; OR (B) $100. FIRM, SUBSCRIBER PARTY, AND CONSULTANT ACKNOWLEDGE THAT MLS PROVIDES THE MLS DATA ON AN “AS-IS,” “AS-AVAILABLE” BASIS, WITHOUT REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WARRANTY OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND ACCURACY. MLS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO FIRM, SUBSCRIBER PARTY, OR CONSULTANT FOR ANY CLAIM ARISING FROM INACCURACIES IN THE MLS DATA, ANY FAILURE TO UPDATE THE MLS DATA PROMPTLY, OR THE MLS DATA’S INADEQUACY FOR ANY PARTICULAR USE, WHETHER PERSONAL OR COMMERCIAL. MLS makes no warranty, including those regarding title, availability, or non-infringement, regarding trademarks licensed under this Agreement, if any.
Dispute resolution; Attorney’s fees. In the event MLS claims that Firm, Subscriber Party, or Consultant has violated the MLS Policies, MLS may, at its option, resolve such a claim according to the disciplinary procedures set out in the MLS Policies, provided MLS does not also base a claim that Firm, Subscriber Party, or Consultant has breached this Agreement on the same facts. Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, any controversy or claim to which Consultant is not a party arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or the breach thereof, shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Arbitration Rules, including its Optional Rules for Emergency Measures of Protection (collectively, the “Arbitration Rules”), and judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The parties irrevocably agree, consent, and submit themselves to personal jurisdiction in the courts of the State of Florida located in Palm Beach County or the federal court of the United States situated therein, as applicable, which shall have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over any action under this Agreement not subject to MLS’s disciplinary procedures or to arbitration. Non-binding mediation in good faith is a condition precedent to asserting any claim, whether in arbitration or the courts, under this Agreement, except that this condition shall not prevent MLS from exercising any of its rights under Section 23. If any party prevails in an action or proceeding to enforce or interpret this Agreement or any provision hereof, it shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs for the legal action.
Indemnification. Subject to Paragraph 24, in the event a party breaches any provision of this Agreement, that party (the Indemnifying Party) shall indemnify the other parties, their subsidiaries and affiliated companies, and all their respective employees, directors, agents, and authorized successors and assigns (the Indemnified Parties), against any and all losses, damages, and costs (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising from each claim of any third party resulting from the breach. Consultant indemnifies MLS, Firm, Salesperson Party, or customers of MLS, Firm, or Salesperson Party, to whom Consultant provides a product or service using MLS Data, against any and all losses, damages, and costs (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising from any third party claim of patent infringement. If Firm, Subscriber or Consultant is placing a product or service in the MLS Marketplace, Firm, Subscriber or Consultant shall also indemnify MLS, its subsidiaries and affiliated companies, and all its respective employees, directors, agents, and authorized successors and assigns, against any and all losses, damages, and costs (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) arising from any third party claim involving such product or service. The Indemnified Parties shall (a) promptly notify the Indemnifying Party of any claim and give the Indemnifying Party the opportunity to defend or negotiate a settlement of any such claim at the Indemnifying Party’s expense, and (b) cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party, at the Indemnifying Party’s expense, in defending or settling any claim. The Indemnified Parties shall be entitled to engage their own local counsel at the Indemnifying Party’s expense.
Notice. All notices to be given under this Agreement shall be mailed, sent via facsimile transmission, or electronically mailed to the MLS at their addresses set forth herein and to Firm/Subscriber Part/ Consultant at their contact information entered into the FBS Datamart Registration, or such other address of which any party may advise the others in writing during the term of this Agreement; and shall be effective the earlier of the date of receipt or three days after mailing or other transmission.
No Waiver. No waiver or modification of this Agreement or any of its terms is valid or enforceable unless reduced to writing and signed by the party who is alleged to have waived its rights or to have agreed to a modification.
Assignment. Firm, Subscriber Party, and Consultant may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its respective rights or obligations under this Agreement to any other party. Any purported assignment or delegation by Firm, Subscriber Party, or Consultant in contravention of this paragraph is null and void, and shall immediately cause this Agreement to terminate.
Entire Agreement; Amendment. Subject to MLS Policies, this Agreement contains the full and complete understanding of the parties regarding the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior representations and understandings, whether oral or written, relating to the same. In the event of any dispute regarding the interpretation of the terms of this Agreement, it shall not be construed for or against any party on the grounds that the Agreement was prepared by any one of the parties. MLS may amend this agreement by providing 30 days’ advance notice of the amendment to all other parties; if any party continues to use the Data Interface or the MLS Data after the expiration of the 30-day notice period, that party will be deemed to have agreed to the terms as amended.
Relationship of the Parties. The parties hereunder are independent contractors. No party shall be deemed to be the agent, partner, joint venturer, franchisor or franchisee, or employee of MLS or have any authority to make any agreements or representations on the behalf of MLS. Each party shall be solely responsible for the payment of compensation, insurance, and taxes of its own employees.
Severability. Each provision of this Agreement is severable from the whole, and if one provision is declared invalid, the other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. In the event that any provision of this Agreement is held invalid or unenforceable by a court having jurisdiction over the parties, the invalid or unenforceable provision shall be replaced, if possible, with a valid provision which most closely approximates the intent and economic effect of the invalid provision. In the event any provision of the limitation of liability, exclusion of warranties, or indemnification is held invalid or unenforceable, this Agreement shall immediately terminate.

BeachesMLS, Inc.
Participant Data Access Agreement

Under this Agreement, FIRM AND SUBSCRIBER PARTY ARE PERMITTED TO WORK ONLY WITH THE CONSULTANT NAMED HERE. If Firm or Subscriber Party chooses to engage a different consultant or additional consultants, Firm must enter into a new version of this Agreement with MLS and each such consultant.

Under this Agreement, CONSULTANT IS PERMITTED TO WORK ONLY WITH THE FIRM AND SUBSCRIBER PARTY NAMED HERE. Consultant may not use data obtained under this Agreement to provide any services to Participants other than Firm, or with Subscribers affiliated with Firm except the Subscriber Party. Consultant must enter into a new version of this Agreement with MLS and each additional Participant or amend this Agreement with MLS to add additional Subscribers affiliated with Firm as Subscriber Parties.

If Firm or Subscriber Party will perform its own technical work and there is no Consultant party to this Agreement, Firm should indicate such in the registration. If this Agreement is for services to Firm only, and there is no Subscriber Party, Firm should indicate such in the registration.

BeachesMLS, Inc.
Participant Data Access Agreement
Exhibit A – Additional Requirements

MLS Marketplace. If placing any products or services in the MLS Marketplace, the following also apply:

• Any product/ service may be denied or removed from the Marketplace at any time in MLS’s sole discretion;
• You commit to at least one year at the agreed upon and negotiated pricing;
• You must manage your own point of sales operations, provide reliable support for your products/ services, and provide logo and information to MLS for product/ service placement in the Marketplace; and
• You guarantee and warrant that the product/ service will not; infringe upon the rights of any third party including but not limited to, any copyrights or patents, contain controversial material, religious content, political content (other than REALTOR® party or RPAC materials), conflict with the MLS’s strategic goals, promote violence, pornography, obscene language, or other illegal activities.

BeachesMLS, Inc.
Participant Data Access Agreement
Exhibit B – Firm AVM Data Use Requirements

This Exhibit governs any use of the MLS Data licensed under this Agreement for use in AVMs.

A.1. Firm may provide Firm AVM services to Registrants with whom Firm establishes a broker-customer or broker-client relationship, if such a relationship is required and defined by state law; including completion of all actions required by state law in connection with providing real estate brokerage services to Registrants. Such actions shall include, but are not limited to, satisfying all applicable agency, non-agency, and other disclosure obligations, and execution of any required agreements necessary for performing AVM services, and Consultant may facilitate such actions where permitted by state law. Where state law does not require the establishment of a broker-customer or broker-client relationship for providing Firm AVM services, the transaction must still occur between the Firm and Registrant, but may be facilitated by Consultant.

A.2. Registrants may include financial institutions, mortgage lenders, mortgage bankers, mortgage brokers, mortgage loan servicers, title or mortgage insurers, insurers of payments owed to owners of mortgage backed securities, Government Sponsored Entities (GSEs), or such other businesses or institutions having an interest in automated reports on property AVM or market conditions.

A.3. Firm, or Consultant on behalf of Firm where permitted by state law, must obtain the name of and a valid e-mail address for each Registrant that is an individual and the name of and a valid email address for each authorized user if the Registrant is an entity. Each Registrant must agree to the terms of use described in Section A.4 of this Exhibit or substantially similar terms of use. Firm must verify that the e-mail address provided by the Registrant is valid and that the Registrant has agreed to the terms of use. Firm may utilize Consultant’s technology platform to facilitate and fulfill its obligations under Sections A.3, and A.4, and A.5.

A.4. Firm, or Consultant on behalf of Firm where permitted by state law, shall require each Registrant to review and affirmatively to express agreement (by mouse click or otherwise) to a terms-of-use agreement or other form of written contract that provides at least the following:

A.4.1: that Registrant acknowledges entering into a lawful consumer-broker relationship with Firm, if such a relationship is required by state law, or that Registrant acknowledges purchasing the Firm AVM from Firm, if a consumer-broker relationship is not required by state law.

A.4.2: that all information obtained by Registrant from Firm AVM is intended only for Registrant’s business purposes related to (1) mortgage loan foreclosure or default risk assessment, or the review of the quality or accuracy of real estate appraisals or other AVMs (2) use in evaluating or engaging in a potential financing or other transaction relating to the subject property, (3) distribution to an actual or potential borrower of funds the repayment of which is secured by a mortgage lien on the subject property, or to the borrower’s financial or legal advisors, (4) the purchase or sale of mortgage servicing rights, (5) the purchase or sale of performing, re-performing or non-performing loans, or (6) the purchase, sale or rental of properties whether property is intended to be used as a residence or for investment and whether the purchaser or seller is an individual or institution.

A.4.3: except as provided in Section A.4.2, that Firm AVMs may not be used for any other purposes, including display on publicly accessible websites, and that Registrant shall not resell Firm AVM and will not copy, redistribute, or retransmit or otherwise use any of the MLS Data provided in Firm AVM.

A.4.4: that Registrant acknowledges, as between the parties, MLS’s ownership of and the validity of the MLS’s copyright in the MLS Data.

A.5. The terms-of-use agreement described in Section A.4 shall also expressly authorize MLS and other Participants or their duly authorized representatives to access and review the form used by Firm for any Firm AVM for the purposes of verifying compliance with MLS Policies and monitoring use of Participants’ listings by the Firm AVM. To the extent that Registrant breaches the terms-of-use agreement described in Section A.4, Firm and Consultant shall be liable to MLS as if Firm or Consultant had breached the terms-of-use agreement itself. The agreement may also include such other provisions as may be agreed to between Firm and Registrant.

A.6. Firm may utilize Consultant’s technology platform and services to facilitate the fulfillment of Firm AVMs services to Registrants, subject to and as permitted by state law.

A.7. Firm’s right to use MLS Data in any Firm AVM is subject to the applicable office of Firm being a Participant in MLS. In other words, an office of Firm that is not a Participant of MLS may not use MLS Data in any AVM provided to any third party.

A.8. Firm must protect the MLS Data from misappropriation by employing reasonable efforts to monitor for and prevent scraping or other unauthorized accessing, reproduction, or use of the MLS Data and AVMs.

A.9. Firm must make a copy of any type of Firm AVM sold by Firm available to MLS for purposes of verifying compliance with this Agreement and MLS Policies.

A.10. MLS shall exclude from the Data Interface all “User Confidential Data.” “User Confidential Data” consists of those portions of MLS Data that Participants are prohibited from providing to customers orally and by all other delivery mechanisms. In the event that MLS includes User Confidential Data in the Data Interface, Firm and Consultant shall ensure that it is not disclosed to Registrants or any other third party.

A.11. Firm shall maintain an audit trail of Firm's delivery to Registrant of all Firm AVMs and make that information available to MLS if MLS has reason to believe that any Registrant has caused or permitted a breach of the terms of use or comparable agreement.

A.12. Firm shall cause to be placed on any Firm AVM or terms of use a notice indicating that the MLS Data displayed on the Firm AVM is not guaranteed accurate by the MLS or other Participants.

A.13. In any display of MLS Data to any Registrant, Firm shall display the copyright notice of MLS or substantially similar. The copyright notice should take one of the following forms: “Copyright 20XX BeachesMLS, Inc.” or “© 20XX BeachesMLS, Inc.”. Firm shall replace “20XX” with the current year as of January 1 each year.